V2 Split files (#75)
SigmaHQ/sigma-specification: appendix_modifer.md

# Modifiers <!-- omit in toc -->

> The following document defines the standardized modifiers that can be used in the Sigma rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following document defines the standardized modifiers that can be used in Sigma.

```

* Version 1.0.0
* Release date 2022/12/19

# Summary

- [Summary](#summary)
  - [Transformations](#transformations)
  - [Types](#types)

## Transformations

* `contains`: puts `*` wildcards around the values, such that the value is matched anywhere in the
  field.

> * `all`: Normally, lists of values were linked with *OR* in the generated query. This modifier
>   changes
>   this to *AND*. This is useful if you want to express a command line invocation with different
>   parameters where the order may vary and removes the need for some cumbersome workarounds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `all`: Normally, lists of values are linked with *OR* in the generated query. This modifier
  changes this to *AND*. This is useful if you want to express a command line invocation with different
  parameters where the order may vary and removes the need for some cumbersome workarounds.
```

  If you use it as a workaround to duplicate a field in a selection, use a new selection instead.
* `base64`: The value is encoded with Base64.
* `base64offset`: If a value might appear somewhere in a base64-encoded string the representation
  might change depending on the position of the value in the overall string. There are three variants for shifts
  by zero to two bytes and except the first and last byte the encoded values have a static part in
  the middle that can be recognized.
* `endswith`: The value is expected at the end of the field's content (replaces e.g. '*\cmd.exe')
* `startswith`: The value is expected at the beginning of the field's content. (replaces e.g. 'adm*')
* `utf16le`: Transforms value to UTF16-LE encoding, e.g. `cmd` > `63 00 6d 00 64 00` (only used in combination with base64 modifiers)
* `utf16be`: Transforms value to UTF16-BE encoding, e.g. `cmd` > `00 63 00 6d 00 64` (only used in combination with base64 modifiers)
* `wide`: Alias for `utf16le` modifier
* `utf16`: Prepends a [byte order mark](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_order_mark) and encodes UTF16, e.g. `cmd` > `FF FE 63 00 6d 00 64 00` (only used in combination with base64 modifiers)

> * `windash`: Add a new variant where all `-` occurrences are replaced with `/`. The original variant is also kept unchanged.

Reviewer: Todo for me: Elaborate on `windash` here

> * `cidr`: The value is handled as an IPv4 CIDR by backends (IPv6 is not supported, yet)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `cidr`: The value is handled as an CIDR by backends
```
waiting for verification by Thomas

Reviewer 2: Confirmed, pySigma supports both IP versions.

* `lt`: Field is less than the value

> * `lte`: Field is less or egal than the value
> * `gt`: Field is Greater than the value
> * `gte`: Field is Greater or egal than the value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `lte`: Field is less or equal than the value
* `gt`: Field is Greater than the value
* `gte`: Field is Greater or equal than the value

```

> * `expand`: Modifier for expansion of placeholders in values. It replaces placeholder strings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `expand`: Modifier for expansion of placeholders in values. It replaces placeholder strings. (e.g. ..?)
```
This one needs an example or more explanation, I think. E.g. how is a string expanded if the input is a list, like names of admin users.

Reviewer 2: It's currently documented [here](https://sigmahq-pysigma.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Processing_Pipelines.html#sigma.processing.transformations.WildcardPlaceholderTransformation), a blog post on this is on my todo list as one of the next action points!

## Types

> * `re`: value is handled as regular expression by backends. Currently, this is only supported by
>   the Elasticsearch query string backend (*es-qs*). Further (like Splunk) are planned or have
>   to be implemented by contributors with access to the target systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `re`: value is handled as a regular expression by backends.
```
Is this even true? In any way I think this shouldn't be part of the spec but be a part of each backends Readme to tell the user which features of the standard are not supported

Reviewer 2: Agree! We should remove any backend-specific information from the spec.

At least the Splunk pySigma backend also supports this and it's part of the base class and cookiecutter template, so everyone who writes a backend gets at least a chance to implement this 😉

  If you use it as a workaround to duplicate a field in a selection, use a new selection instead.
* `base64`: The value is encoded with Base64.
* `base64offset`: If a value might appear somewhere in a base64-encoded string the representation
  might change depending on the position of the value in the overall string. There are three variants for shifts
  by zero to two bytes and except the first and last byte the encoded values have a static part in
  the middle that can be recognized.
* `endswith`: The value is expected at the end of the field's content (replaces e.g. '*\cmd.exe')
* `startswith`: The value is expected at the beginning of the field's content. (replaces e.g. 'adm*')
* `utf16le`: Transforms value to UTF16-LE encoding, e.g. `cmd` > `63 00 6d 00 64 00` (only used in combination with base64 modifiers)
* `utf16be`: Transforms value to UTF16-BE encoding, e.g. `cmd` > `00 63 00 6d 00 64` (only used in combination with base64 modifiers)
* `wide`: Alias for `utf16le` modifier
* `utf16`: Prepends a [byte order mark](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_order_mark) and encodes UTF16, e.g. `cmd` > `FF FE 63 00 6d 00 64 00` (only used in combination with base64 modifiers)

> * `windash`: Add a new variant where all `-` occurrences are replaced with `/`. The original variant is also kept unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `windash`: creates all possible permutations of the `-` and `/` characters. Windows command line flags can often be indicated by both characters. Using the `windash` modifier converts `-` values into `/` and vice versa and uses all possible permutation of strings in the selection.

```

* `windash`: creates all possible permutations of the `-` and `/` characters. Windows command line flags can often be indicated by both characters. Using the `windash` modifier converts `-` values into `/` and vice versa and uses all possible permutation of strings in the selection.

* `cidr`: The value is handled as an CIDR by backends
* `lt`: Field is less than the value
* `lte`: Field is less or equal than the value
* `gt`: Field is Greater than the value
* `gte`: Field is Greater or equal than the value

* `expand`: Modifier for expansion of placeholders in values. The final behavior of the replacement is determined by processing pipeline transformations. Current possibilities in pySigma are:
  * Expand to value list (`ValueListPlaceholderTransformation`/`value_placeholders`)
  * Replace with query expression in target query language (`QueryExpressionPlaceholderTransformation`/`query_expression_placeholders`)
  * Replace placeholder with wildcard `*`, which should only be used as last resort. (`WildcardPlaceholderTransformation`/`wildcard_placeholders`)

## Types

> * `re`: value is handled as a regular expression by backends.

Reviewer: weren't there more value modifiers in context of `|re`.

Also the `|cased`.

Author: I did not work on the content of the files, I separated them at first
